# Documentation for the `maxims4sas` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *maxims4sas* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: maxims4sas
- Version: 0.2.1
- Generated: 2025-08-07T15:02:55
- Author(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*F892DA70019034DBE00CE760B960C64D8275803E5D364164D808D51C239B3F53` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*7B86CC674787724C1C309FE8E61C57BE850406CE9C11E2FA18BED42223967AA4` for this version
  
---
 
# The `maxims4sas` package, version: `0.2.1`;
  
---
 
This package displays maxims that have deeply impressed me and that I wish to pass on to future generations.
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20241207`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `maxims4sas` package content
The `maxims4sas` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%sas_maxims()` macro ](#sasmaxims-macros-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%sas_maxims()` macro <a name="sasmaxims-macros-1"></a> ######


Macro Name      : `sas_maxims`

## Description:

This macro presents 50+ practical and philosophical principles aimed at
improving SAS programming habits. It can be used in training materials,
documentation, or as motivational content.
 
Call to the macro displays a collection of 
"*Maxims of Maximally Efficient SAS Programmers*"
using `PROC ODSTEXT` with bold styling for emphasis.

### Author: 

Originally compiled by **Kurt Bremser** (2019)
[Maxims of Maximally Efficient SAS Programmers](https://support.sas.com/resources/papers/proceedings19/3062-2019.pdf)

Ported by: Morioka Yutaka

Major updates and improvements by: Bartosz Jablonski

### Parameters: 

- `maxims` - *OPTIONAL*, list of numbers of maxims to be printed. 
              When empty *all* are printed. See examples.

### Output: 

Stylized text output using `ODSTEXT`, 
intended for inclusion in reports
(PDF, RTF, or HTML via ODS).

### Dependencies: 

Requires ODS destination that supports ODSTEXT (e.g., ODS PDF, ODS RTF, etc.)

---

## Examples:

**Example 1. Print all maxims.**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sas 
%sas_maxims()
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


**Example 2. Print maxims 1 to 6 and maxims 42 and 52.**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sas 
%sas_maxims(1:6, 42, 52)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

---


  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy   
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal    
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights   
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell   
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is   
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
